KA1 - Software Requirements: Describes the activities involved in eliciting, analyzing, specifying, validating, and managing software requirements. The importance of requirements documentation for long-term maintenance is added. The “what’s” and “how’s” of work on software requirements in a project should be determined by the type of constructed software and not by the project life cycle. Also, it includes a deeper, broader coverage of requirements specification techniques, including model-driven requirements specification and acceptance criteria-based requirements specification.

KA2 – Software Architecture: This is a new KA resulting from a realization that architecture is a significant and distinct discipline over and above software design. Software architecture consists of fundamental structures of software elements, relations among them, and properties of both elements and relations. As software tends toward larger, ever more complex systems, architecture concerns move beyond construction to connectivity while assuring new levels of quality for safety, security, and dependability. Software architecture aims to “satisfice” all stakeholders, while the focus of software design is on the transformation of that vision into a feasible implementation.

KA 3 - Software Design: Focuses on the process of transforming requirements into a representation of the software system. Software is pervasive and critical in all aspects of modern life. The success of pervasive software depends on broadening the background of people with design skills, especially as emerging technologies, faster delivery times, and emphasis on agile, lean, and incremental design impact the development process.

KA4 - Software Construction: Covers the activities involved in translating the software design into executable code. This section has been updated to reflect modern construction techniques and practices: managing dependencies, cross-platform development and migration, feedback loops for construction, visual programming, and low-code/zero-code (i.e., called no code) platforms. Furthermore, major updates were made to some of the existing sections, especially about reuse, life-cycle models, construction languages and environments.

KA5 - Software Testing: Deals with the various approaches and techniques used to assess software correctness and verify its conformance to requirements. This material has been revised to align with the shift left testing movement. This KA provides new content about software testing in recent development processes (like Agile, DevOps, and Test-Driven Development), application domains (like automotive, healthcare, mobile, legal, and IoT), emerging technologies (such as AI, blockchain, cloud) and quality attributes (like security and privacy).

KA6 - Software Engineering Operations: This is a new knowledge area that addresses the evolution of the role of software engineers to include DevOps and infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) activity while eliminating the organizational silos between development, maintenance, and operations. This new KA describes operations fundamentals, planning, delivery and control activities, and techniques.

KA 7 - Software Maintenance (SM): Software maintenance addresses fundamentals, processes, and techniques to provide cost-effective support for software in operation. Activities, such as determining the logistical support needed for the transition, are performed, and applied during the pre-delivery stage, whereas software surveillance, modification, training, and operating or interfacing with a help desk are post-stage activities. Software Maintenance categories and the software process have been updated to align with the 2022 version of ISO/IEC/IEEE 14764. (ISO/IEEE/IEEE 2022) Also, continuous integration, delivery, testing, and deployment have been added as a new topic in response to the growing popularity of regrouping development, maintenance, and operations tasks to improve software engineering productivity.

KA 8 - Software Configuration Management (SCM): Focuses on four basic functions of SCM: Configuration Identification: identifying all configuration items (CI) of a software system's state; Control changes: coordinating and limiting access to configurations in a software system; Configuration auditing: a series of reviews confirming that changes are being made to conform to a software system's desired state; and Status Accounting: automatically recording information about CIs, relationships, baselines and changes on any CI developed, as well as why they were made, when they were made, and who made them. In SWEBOK Guide V4, SCM has been explained considering all its facets. It stresses that the SCM process plan must be defined first before all the decisions and commitments included in the plan are somehow incorporated into existing tools for execution rather than the other way around, as was the usual practice in the past. Keeping track of configuration items (CI) relationships is essential to visualize the potential impact of a change on a CI over other CIs.

KA9 - Software Engineering Management: Describes the activities of the planning, organizing, estimating, and tracking of software projects. Practices are changing to meet the needs of society caused by increases in the size and complexity of software as well as greater pressure to quickly release software enabling products to market in rapidly changing environments. The results are fundamental management shifts in how work is performed.

KA10 - Software Engineering Process: Describes the activities, methods, and techniques used to define, implement, assess, and improve the software development process. Software engineers face a challenging and evolving, highly technological landscape due to fast-moving technology, societal events and changes, and a trend towards digitalization involving very many different domains. This is a point of no return that has facilitated the ongoing adoption of Agile and DevOps. Nevertheless, now more than ever, the software engineering processes applied to create products will continue to evolve, profiting from advances in the engineering dimension and learning, new and more advanced tools, and the latest knowledge from the other KAs. The KA describes this new consensus, highlighting the interaction with other KAs.

KA 11 - Software Engineering Models and Methods: Introduces different models, methods, and tools that support the software development process. Models have been updated and accurately classified by type. Aspect-oriented development has been added in the document as well as fundamental model-driven and model-based methods, have also been introduced. Agile methods have been extended a great deal to incorporate modern techniques, such as lean development, as well as large-scale and enterprise agile methods. On this note, DevOps and release engineering have also been introduced to clarify the release aspect of agile methods.

KA12 - Software Quality: Addresses the activities and techniques involved in achieving and evaluating software quality. This chapter was overhauled for alignment with notions of processes/product quality. It now includes new topics: (1) Software Dependability and Integrity Levels, (2) Standards, Models and Certifications, (3) Policies, Processes and Procedures, and (4) Quality Control and Testing.

KA13 – Software Security: This is a new knowledge area that focuses on the broader topics of security, particularly security fundamentals, security management, security tools, and domain-specific security, as well as major security engineering activities (such as security testing) that were briefly described under the Computing Foundations KA in the last SWEBOK edition. The existence of a separate KA emphasizes that security must be a first-class quality attribute in any development since almost any software system is connected to others, resulting in increased security risks.

KA14 - Software Engineering Professional Practice: Covers ethical considerations, professional codes of conduct, and the role of software engineering in society. Additions and revisions address the following areas: (1) Professional practices following generally accepted practices, standards, and guidelines set forth by the applicable professional societies, (2) User interface/user experience (UI/UX) inclusive design, (3) Considerations on diversity and inclusion, and (4) Considerations on agility.

KA15 - Software Engineering Economics: Focuses on the essence of engineering economics, the science of making decisions, and broadening the more traditional, purely financial view of engineering economics. Value does not always derive from money alone; that is, value can also derive from the “unquantifiable” such as, corporate citizenship, employee well-being, environmental friendliness, customer loyalty, and so on. This KA also focuses on more systematic pre-project decisions where a project is not under development but is being envisioned.

Note: Minor improvements in topic presentation in the next three KA 16-18. Discussions of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning were added. Furthermore, the revision includes a deeper coverage of measurement, particularly its implications for programming languages, and a more comprehensive discussion of root cause analysis.

KA16 - Computing Foundations: Covers the fundamental concepts and theories that underlie the discipline of software engineering.

KA 17 - Mathematical Foundations: Introduces mathematical techniques and principles relevant to software engineering, such as logic, probability, and discrete mathematics.

KA - 18 Engineering Foundations: Covers engineering principles and practices applicable to software engineering, including system engineering and project management.